So not be talking just about ideas,
but the actually be expressing the idea. Is there, you know, somebody in the,
maybe you can comment, there's a guy, uh, his YouTube channel is three blue,
one brown grant Anderson. He does that masterfully well, absolutely.
Of, of visualizing of expressing a, the idea and then talking about it as well,
back and forth. Uh, what do you, what do you think about grant.
It's? It's fantastic. I mean, the flowering of math,
YouTube is like such a wonderful thing because you know, math teaching,
there's so many different venues through which we can teach people math.
There's the traditional one, right? Well, what, where I'm in a classroom with,
you know, depending on the class, it could be 30 people,
it could be a hundred people. It could, God help me be a 500 people.
If it's like the big calculus lecture or whatever it may be.
And there's sort of some,
but there's some set of people of that order of magnitude and I'm with them for,
we have a long time I'm with them for a whole semester and I can ask them to do
homework. And we talk together.
We have office hours that they have one-on-one questions, lot, blah,
that's like a very high level of engagement,
but how many people am I actually hitting at a time? Like not that many. Right.
Um, and you can,
and there's kind of an inverse relationship where the more enga the,
the fewer people you're talking to,
the more engagement you can ask for the ultimate of course,
is like the mentorship relation of like a <affirmative> PhD advisor and a
graduate student where you spend a lot of one on one time together for like,
you know, three to five years and of the ultimate high level of engagement
to one person mm-hmm <affirmative>, um, you know, books I can,
this can get to a lot more people that are ever gonna sit in my classroom and
you spend, and like, uh,
however many hours it takes to read a book, uh, somebody like three blue,
one brown or number file, or, um, people like VI Hart. I mean,
YouTube let's face, it has bigger reach than a book.
Like there's YouTube videos that have many, many, many more views than like,
you know, any hardback book,
like not written by a Kardashian or an Obama is gonna sell. Right. So that's,
I mean, um, any, and, and then, you know,
those are, you know, some of them are like longer 20 minutes long.
Some of 'em are five minutes long, but they're, you know, they're shorter.
And then even so looked,
looked like Virginia Chan was a wonderful category theorist in Chicago. I mean,
she was on, I think the daily show or is, I mean, she was, you know, mm-hmm,
<affirmative>, she has 30 seconds,
but then there's like 30 seconds to sort of say something about math mathematics
to like untold millions of people. So everywhere along this curve is,
is important.
And one thing I feel like is great right now is that people are just
broadcasting on all the channels because we each have our skills. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> somehow along the way, like I learned how to write books.
I had this kind of,
of weird life as a writer where I sort of spent a lot of time,
like thinking about how to put English words together into sentences and
sentences together into paragraphs, like at length,
which is this kind of like weird specialized skill <laugh> and one thing,
but like sort of being able to make like, you know,
winning good looking eye-catching videos is like a totally different skill.
And, you know, probably, you know, somewhere out there,
there's probably sort of some like heavy metal band that's like teaching math
through heavy metal and like using their skills to do that.
I hope there is at anyway, their.
Music and so on. Yeah. But there is something to the process. I mean,
grant does this especially well, which is
in order to be able to visualize something. Now he writes programs.
So it's programmatic visualization. So like the,
the things he is basically mostly through his, uh, Madam library and,
and Python, everything is drawn on through Python. You have to,
um, you have to truly understand the topic to be able to,
to visualize it in that way and not just understand it,
but really kind of think in a very novel way. It's funny,
cuz I I've spoken with him a couple times, uh,
spoken to him a lot offline as well.
He really doesn't think he's doing anything new,
meaning like he sees himself as very different from maybe like a
researcher, but it feels
to me like he's creating something totally new,
like that act of understanding very visualizing is as powerful or
has the same kind of inkling of power as does the process of proving something.
You know, it, it just, it doesn't have that clear destination, but it's,
it's pulling out an insight and creating multiple sets of perspective that
arrive at that insight.
And to be honest, it's something that it,
I think we haven't quite figured out how to value inside
academic mathematics in the same way.
And this is a bit older that I think we haven't quite figured out how to value
the development of computational infrastructure. You know,
we all have computers as our partners now and people build
computers that sort of assist and participate in our mathematics.
They build those systems and that's a kind of mathematics too,
but not in the traditional form of proving theorems and writing papers.
But I think it's coming look, I mean, I think, you know, for example,
the Institute for, uh, computational experimental mathematics at brown,
which is like a, you know, it's a NSF funded math Institute,
very much part of sort of traditional math. Yeah.
They did an entire theme semester about visualizing mathematics,
like into the same kind of thing that they would do for like an up and coming
research topic. Like that's pretty cool. So I think there really is buy-in from,
uh,
the mathematics community to recognize that this kind of stuff is important and
counts as part of mathematics, like part of what we're actually here to do.
Yeah. I'm hoping to see more and more of that from like MIT faculty,
from faculty, from all the, the top universities in the world.